# TalkVerse

TalkVerse is an Social Media web application.

## Note

- This project is created for learning purposes and can be used as a personal project.
- This project ***can be deployed on a live server*** as ***all features*** all fully ***operational***.

***

## Features

1. #### User Authentication :
    
    - TalkVerse ensures secure user registration and authentication using **JWT (JSON Web Tokens)**. Users can easily sign up, log in, and manage their profiles with confidence.
    - **Bcrypt** is used for password hashing, adding an extra layer of security to user data.

2.  #### Application Stack :
    
    - The web application is built using TypeScript, React, Node.js, MongoDB, and PostgreSQL. These technologies form the foundation for its functionality and user interface..

3.  #### Secure Chat with Encryption :
    
    - The chat feature incorporates both **asymmetric and symmetric encryption** methods. This ensures that user messages remain confidential and protected.
 
4.  #### Real-Time Communication :
    
    - Websockets are employed to enable live chat functionality. Users can engage in real-time conversations, making the application dynamic and responsive.
 
5.  #### Messaging Channels :
    
    - Channels organize message operations within the application.
  
6. #### Blogging and Post Creation :

	- Users have the ability to create and share blog posts or other content. This feature encourages engagement and content sharing.

## Installation

- Clone the repository to your local machine.
	```
	git clone https://github.com/NVJ9SINGHNAVJOT/talk-verse.git
	```
- Set up environment variables.
    In root directory in /backend and /frontend **.env.example** file is present, replace it with **.env** file and set required variables for running application *(.env.example contains all variables examples)*.
- Project can be run on local machine by Docker or by installing dependencies locally.
- **with docker**
    ```
	cd study-xenon
 	cd backend
	docker compose up -d
	cd ..
 	cd frontend
	docker compose up -d
	```

- **with local machine dependencies**
1. Install Node.js, if already installed skip.
2. Install the required packages and start development servers.
	```
	cd talk-verse
 	cd backend
	npm install
	npm run dev
	cd ..
 	cd frontend
	npm install
	npm run dev
	```

- Open the project in your browser at [`http://localhost:5173`](http://localhost:5173).

## Important

- PostgreSQL: drizzle orm is used for postgres, after any change in schema new sql schemas needs to be generated by drizzle kit by running command **npm run postgresqldb:generate**, after this restart server.
    

***
